 Customer Service You may be trying to access this site from a secured browser on the server. Please enable scripts and reload this page. Turn on more accessible mode Turn off more accessible mode Skip Ribbon Commands Skip to main content Turn off Animations Turn on Animations hidden anchor Sign In menu Department of Health and Human Services It looks like your browser does not have JavaScript enabled. Please turn on JavaScript and try again. close Administration & Support About Us DHHS Leadership History of DHHS Organization Structure Overview of DHHS Values and Core Competencies Useful Links For Employees more + Contact Us Administrative Contacts Concerns or Complaints Local DHHS Offices Local Health Departments Media and Communications News Releases Tribal Liaisons more + Other Careers at DHHS Forms Grants and Contract Opportunities Guidance Documents Health Care Provider Loan Repayment Programs Legislation Regulations Reports and Statistics Divisions & Offices Division of Behavioral Health Treatment and Recovery Consumer Advocacy / Consumer Affairs Prevention Rules & Regulations State Committees Suicide Prevention Psychiatric Hospitals Removing Committed Persons From Firearms Restricted Use List Reports more + Division of Children and Family Services Abuse and Neglect Central Registry / Expungements Children and Family Assistance Child Welfare Adult Protective Services Youth Rehabilitation Reports more + Division of Disability and Aging Home and Community Based Services (Waivers) interRAI Assessment Information Special Health Care Needs State Unit on Aging Olmstead Plan Beatrice State Developmental Center Contact Us Resources Reports more + Division of Medicaid & Long-Term Care Report Medicaid Provider Allegations Clients Client Eligibility Verification General Information Providers Reports more + Division of Public Health Licensing Investigations/File a Complaint Vital Records and Birth Certifications Diseases & Conditions Emergency Preparedness Environmental Health Epidemiology Health Disparities Rural Health Lifespan Health Services Nebraska Public Health Atlas Reports more + Office of Economic Assistance Food Assistance Child Care Child Support Energy Assistance Temporary Assistance for Families/Aid to Dependent Children Assistance for Aged, Blind, & Disabled more + Licensing & Regulations Online Services Licensing Homepage Child Care Licensing Change of Address - Person File a Complaint against a License Holder License Search, Lists, Labels License Verification Name Change or Reissuance Renew a Facility License Renew a Professional License Board Information Agendas & Minutes List of Boards Membership and Responsibilities Requirements & Vacancies State Board of Health Other Regulations Disciplinary Actions Against License Holders Investigations Licensee Assistance Program Guidelines for Nebraska Schools HIPAA Legislation Medicaid Fee Schedules Medicaid Provider Enrollment Public Hearing Notices Community Health Worker Training Worker Health and Safety More on Licensing> Assistance Programs General Assistance Child Care Community Services Block Grant Military Families & Veterans Respite Services Teen Bridge to Independence Economic Assistance Aid to Dependent Children (ADC) Child Support Emergency Cash Assistance Energy Assistance Homeless Assistance SNAP (Food Stamps) Women Infants & Children (WIC) more + Disabilities Aged, Blind, or Disabled (AABD) Beatrice State Developmental Center Division of Disability and Aging Developmental Disabilities Council Disabled Persons and Family Support (DPFS) Medically Handicapped Children (MHCP) Social Services for Aged and Disabled (SSAD) Special Health Care Needs more + Medicaid Related Aged & Disabled (AD Waiver) Assisted Living Services Assistive Technology/Home Modification Children's Health Insurance (CHIP) Heritage Health (Managed Care) Home Health Hospice Medicaid Client Information Medicaid Eligibility more + Children, Families & Seniors Children Adolescent Health Car Seat Training Child Abuse Child Care Child Support Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) Foster Care Juvenile Services Medically Handicapped Children's Program Newborn Screening Safe Haven Youth Rehabilitation and Treatment more + Families Adoption Advisory Committee on Developmental Disabilities Beatrice State Developmental Center Division of Disability and Aging Council on Developmental Disabilities Disabilities Domestic Violence Family Advocacy Family First Prevention Services Act Nebraska Family Helpline Paternity Pregnancy & Babies Refugee Resettlement Respite Services WIC - Women, Infants and Children Seniors Adult Abuse Adult Day Services Home Delivered Meals Long-Term Care Long-Term Care Ombudsman Public Data Public Data Homepage Health & Wellness Diseases & Conditions Alzheimer’s Cancer Chronic Disease Prevention Concussion Coronavirus (COVID-19) Flu Renal/Kidney Disease Parkinson's Disease Rabies Sexually Transmitted Disease Tuberculosis West Nile Virus Hepatitis more + Safety Asbestos Disasters & Emergencies Emergency Medical Services (EMS) Health Alert Network (HAN) Indoor Air Quality Injury Prevention Lead Poisoning Radiation Radon Report Child or Adult Abuse Water more + Mental Health Behavioral Health Network of Care Behavioral Risk Factor Survey Critical Incident Stress Management Program (CISM) Mental Health Commitment Suicide Prevention Wellness & Prevention Breastfeeding Community Health and Performance Management Hearing Screening for Children Immunization Local Health Departments Newborn Screening Children's Health TobaccoFree Nebraska WIC - Women, Infants and Children Women's Health more + Addiction Treatment and Recovery Opioids (PDMP) Tobacco Vital Records Certificates Birth Certificates Death Certificates Divorce Certificates Marriage Certificates Nonviable Births more + Other Biological Father Registry Child Death Review Team Crash Outcome Data Evaluation System (CODES) Electronic Data Interchange Fatherhood / Paternity Genealogy Research State Wards (former) Records Request Stillbirth / Fetal Death Statistics and Reports A-Z Index News Open filters/menu Hide filters/menu Recent Customer Service page description 7 Environmental Health Public Health Share No No What would you like to do? What you need to know Page Content ​​​​​The staff of the Customer Service section is dedicated to serving our customer's needs in the most efficient way possible. Customer Service is responsible for the following operations: Ensuring quality customer satisfaction Shipping sample collection kits Receiving and scanning in samples Demographic data entry and reporting Custodian of all official lab records Analyte/Price List​ The Analyte/Price List includes the Analytes the lab can test for, Method used, Price, EPA Holding Time and our lab's Turn Around Time. Our laboratory is not able to perform every possible environmental test. Those tests that are of low volume are contracted out (noted on list). Each contract laboratory is EPA or NELAC approved and works closely with us to ensure accuracy of each result. We will make every effort to meet holding times of samples delivered to the laboratory. The laboratory cannot be held responsible for delays out of our control, such as improper sample collection, delivery delays, or equipment breakdown. We request that samples with holding times less than 48 hours (except coliforms) be prearranged with Customer Service in advance. If you need a sample result by a particular date contact the Lab Manager in advance to arrange special handling, note the information on the request form and include a phone number for future reference. If you have prearranged a short holding time sample and decide not to collect the sample, please cancel the order with the laboratory. We will also make every effort to complete each test within the turnaround time stated in the Analyte/Price List. Turnaround times do not include weekends or holidays. If a sample is required within a particular timeframe, please contact the Lab Manager to see if the laboratory can meet your needs. See the NPHEL Total Water Quality (NEW WELL) Fee List for the cost of new well testing. Order sample collection kits To order sample collection kits online use one of the following links: - Private Clients or Companies - Public Water System Clien​ts and Schools To order sample collection kits via phone, call NPHEL Customer Service at (402) 471-3935. Customer service hours are 8:00 a.m. through 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, with the exception of holidays. The following information is needed: Name, address, phone number, your system's NE31 or NE32 account number (if applicable), type of test kit(s) requested, and quantity of each kit(s). All Public Water System client accounts are set up and maintained by the State of Nebraska Department of Water Energy and Environment's Drinking Water Program. For changes in status, address, or water operator call (402) 471-2713. If you need help in selecting the appropriate test for a particular water problem, Private clients and Public Water System clients should call the State of Nebraska Department of Water Energy and Environment's Drinking Water Program at (402) 471-4982 for assistance or email: dwee.moreinfo@nebraska.gov ​. In addition, please send any requests for a Well and Septic Inspection to the State of Nebraska Office of Drinking Water at (402) 471-6435 for assistance or email: dwee.moreinfo@nebraska.gov​ .​ Drinking water testing for home loans The Laboratory is continuously striving to provide the most efficient, friendly and cost effective service to customers statewide. To best serve all of the realtors of the state we wish to provide the realty community information that will help us better meet your needs in a timely fashion. Please allow at least a week and preferably two weeks to process your samples and report the results to you. Planning ahead will reduce both your frustration and possible client disappointment at closing time. Order sample collection kits as soon as possible to prevent a delay in receiving needed supplies. Order online by using the Private Clients or Companies link above or by calling (402) 471-3935 between the hours of 8:00 am and 5:00 pm, Monday through Friday, with the exception of holidays. When ordering your testing kit you must provide the following information: Name, address and daytime phone number of person or business to receive sample kit. Name, address and daytime phone number of person or business to receive results. Name, address and daytime phone number of person or business to receive bill. Test type (check with lender for the specific test(s) required). Quantity. It is important to provide the correct information when ordering your sample kit(s). If the testing fee is included in the closing costs, the caller should provide billing information for the appropriate bank, lending office, or realty office. If the testing fee will not be included in the closing costs, the caller should provide billing information for the buyer or seller whichever is appropriate. Whomever is specified by the caller, will receive the invoice and will be responsible for paying the testing fee. Important things to remember when ordering water tests on home loans: Total Coliform samples must be received and tested within 30 hours of collection. Nitrite samples must be received and tested within 48 hours of collection. The laboratory must acidify lead samples when they are received. The samples must then sit for at least 16 hours before they can be scheduled into the workload. Please allow up to two weeks' time to receive a test result after submitting a sample especially when lead results are requested. Do not request rush results (less than one week) without first talking to customer service or a laboratory manager. Due to instrument maintenance, testing schedules and prior promised project deadlines rush sample requests might not be able to be completed when requested. So please plan ahead to avoid a delay. If circumstances do arise and a rush sample is needed, please call the laboratory customer service at (402) 471-3935 prior to mailing or dropping off a sample. This will allow the staff to inform the analyst when samples will be arriving so they can best meet your needs. Indicate on the sample request form that the sample is for a home loan. If there is a closing date include that so the laboratory staff can do their best to meet that closing date. Provide a name and phone number on the sample request form of someone who can be contacted if a problem arises with the sample that will pose problems with expected completion. Invoices are mailed weekly and are due 30 days from the invoice date. The invoice will list the type of analysis, sample number, collection date, sampling location and sample collector. This information is obtained from the submission forms that accompany the sample kits and can be used as a tool to match invoices to result forms. Please submit the remittance copy of each invoice with all payments to ensure proper account crediting. Statements are issued on a monthly basis to any customers who have past due invoices. For accounts receivable questions, call (402) 471-8441.​ Sample kits and general sample instructions Samples must be collected in sample kits supplied by the Nebraska Public Health Environmental Laboratory. Sample collection instructions are included with all sample collection kits, except routine public water system coliform kits. Read these instructions before you collect your sample to prevent your sample from being rejected . Samples not collected properly will be rejected and a replacement kit will be sent to you. Unpacking your sample collection kits When you receive your sample collection kits, take time to carefully unpack your box. All sample kits, except the routine public water system coliform samples should include: Sampling instructions, One or more sampling containers, One or more sample submission forms with barcode labels and a return mailing label attached, Plastic zip lock bag for wet ice (depending on the test method), and A return mailing box/cooler. If you are missing one or more of these items or have questions regarding your order, call Customer Service at (402) 471-3935. Note: If your kit requires ice to maintain appropriate temperature during shipment, please use wet ice. Crushed ice does not last as long as larger ice chunks. Do not use dry ice. Dry ice can freeze samples causing sample containers to break. How to read and fill out your sample request form Each sample request form that you receive with your sample collection kit(s) will give a Lab identification number. This number is unique to your sample. It will track your sample from kit preparation to result archival. The sample request form will tell you what the request is for and what method(s) is to be used. The reason for the sample request will also be indicated, along with any special comments. Your account number and/or name will appear on the bottom of each form. Please check to see that you received the sample request form for the appropriate client. If the request form(s) is not for your account, call us​​​ at (402) 471-3935, to report the problem. All samples submitted for testing must be accompanied with a completed sample request form. Each request form must include the following information: Name of person who collected the sample, Date of collection, Time of collection, and POE (Point of Entry) or Location from which the sample was collected. The location should indicate where the sample was collected, for example kitchen sink, outside east faucet, drinking fountain 4th floor, or John Doe's 122 E 10th. Residual Chlorine (if applicable) The EPA requires the calculation of the sample holding time be based on the sample collection date and time supplied on the sample request form. Samples received without complete information will be rejected and a replacement sample collection kit will be sent to you. Sample identification Each sample must be labeled with at least one barcode label to ensure that the sample can be linked to the appropriate client and request form. When you receive the sample collection kit(s), a sample request form should be included with each kit. The request form contains preprinted barcode labels that need to be removed from the request form and attached to the appropriate sample bottle(s)/vials(s). Every sample collection kit must have at least one barcode label affixed to it before it is returned to the laboratory. Extra care should be taken to label each sample correctly. If you have more than one kit to collect make sure that the barcode label for each kit type is attached to the sample container for the appropriate test. NOTE: In some cases, sample instructions ask you to put two barcode labels on each sample container/vial. If your sample containers are returned without barcode identification or with the wrong barcode identification, they will be rejected and a replacement sample collection kit will be shipped to you. Do not label two containers from two different tests with the same barcode label. This will result in invalidation of both samples due to improper identification. Do not put large address labels on the sample containers. Do not seal sample containers with extra labels. Do not affix extra barcode labels to the Styrofoam mailer. ​ After you have collected your sample(s), make certain you have: Attached the appropriate barcode label(s) to your sample(s), Filled out the info on bottle/vial if label has been provided, Filled out the request form(s) including DATES and TIME of collection, Included a daytime phone number on your request form. Important Forgetting any of these items may invalidate your sample(s)! ​ Delivery and shipping suggestions You may drop off samples at the laboratory front desk, located at 3701 South 14th Street, during business hours, 8:00 a.m. through 5:00 p.m., Monday through Friday, with the exception of holidays. An afterhours drop box for samples is available just north and around the corner of the main laboratory entrance. Do not leave samples outside the box or front door. This practice possesses a security risk for lab personnel as well as other clients. Please note that samples left in the drop box are picked up the next business day, unless special arrangements have been made ahead of time with laboratory staff. (Call (402) 471-2122, during normal business hours to arrange for special after-hour sample drop off). Exposure to extreme temperatures may compromise collected samples and the testing results may not accurately reflect the true result. Avoid leaving samples in places, such as vehicles, postal boxes, and other spaces that could expose a collected sample to extreme temperatures. Freezing can cause sample containers to break. High temperature can encourage growth of bacteria, which may degrade organic components in the sample. Check with your post office to see when mail is routinely scheduled to leave your town for Lincoln delivery. Collection of the sample in the afternoon may reduce the time in transit. This will help ensure that your sample(s) meets holding times without missing the out-going mail truck. Your post office can also recommend the appropriate postage (first-class, priority express overnight) for the type of delivery that you may need to ensure that your sample(s) arrives in good condition and within the required time period. Other delivery services, such as Federal Express and United Parcel can be used. Be sure that delivery will be between normal working hours. Weekend and holiday delivery must be scheduled with the laboratory prior to delivery company pickup. (The laboratory will make arrangements for weekend and holiday receipt of samples delivered by delivery companies or clients on an emergency basis only). Sample collection do's and don'ts DO save a barcode sticker for your records from each sample collection kit that you send into the laboratory. This number can be used later to track your sample through the laboratory computer system. To better organize the amount of work coming into the laboratory, some sample collection kits specify a specific date for the sample collection. Do your best to collect the sample(s) on or within a few days of the specified date and mail immediately. If it is not possible to collect the sample around the specified date, call customer service at (402) 471-3935 to make other arrangements for collection. DO NOT fill out your sample request form with water soluble ink or pencil. The information may be lost if the sample container sweats or leaks in-transit to the laboratory. If you send in an address change, please let us know whether the change is for shipping, reporting, and/or billing. Changes should be written on your sample request form or on a separate note attached to the form. Be sure the note includes your account number and/or name. DO NOT wrap your sample request form around your sample collection container. Leave the sample request form outside of the Styrofoam box, the same way it was shipped to you. Schedule all testing for BODs, Orthos, Fecal Coliforms, Heterotrophic Plate Counts, and Nitrite's with Customer Service at (402) 471-3935, at least 24 hours in advance. These all have short holding times and require special handling in the laboratory to meet method requirements. DO NOT mail or deliver your kits with short holding times so that they will arrive on a weekend or holiday, unless prior arrangements have been made. If you need fast turnaround for a special project or emergency, call the Laboratory Manager at (402) 471-2122 and ask if the lab can meet your special testing needs. We will make every effort to accommodate your requests. ​ Getting your results Results are processed by Customer Service only after the testing data has been reviewed by two analysts. Results are mailed to the client once both reviews are completed and the report has been reviewed for completeness and accuracy by management. Sample results for Public Water Supply Systems, can be accessed through the State of Nebraska Drinking Water Watch. Follow directions to navigate to your public water system and sample results. The Sample Custodian and Lab Managers can give verbal results to customers if they are finalized. Please allow sufficient time for the testing and the review process before inquiring about your results. (See the Analyte/Price List for normal turnaround time for each test method). Call Customer Service at (402) 471-8449 to check the status of your water testing results. Results are only released to the clients on the sample request form . When you call for a result, please have your NE31 or NE32 account number (if you are a Public Water System or School), client name, and lab ID number available to help us track your sample. Reading and Interpreting Your Results See the Sample Report for an example of our laboratory analytical report along with information on how to read and interpret your report. Sample disposal Some samples are disposed of once the sample has been tested. Due to the nature of those samples, they cannot be retested. Other samples are stored for up to one month after their report date. Please contact the laboratory, as soon as possible, if you wish a sample to be retested or stored for a longer period of time. We would be happy to retest those samples, however if the repeat result confirms the first result, the client will be charged for the second test. More Navigation List Name Back to Lab Home More Customer Service Pay Lab Bill / Invoice and Statement Policies Laboratory Certification EPA Nebraska Drinking Water Watch © 2026 Nebraska Department of Health and Human Services 301 Centennial Mall South, Lincoln, Nebraska 68508 (402) 471-3121 TDD (800) 833-7352 Contact Us For Latest Updates : Sign Up Careers Security, Privacy & Accessibility Policy Non Discrimination & Language Assistance General Disclaimer HIPAA Helping People Live Better Lives 