Home Water Testing
The quality of your water impacts your health and the health of your
family. As such, it is important to be well-informed about the water
you use in your home.

Public Water Systems
If you pay a water bill, you are purchasing water from a public water
system (PWS). The PWS is required to monitor, test, and report the
results to federal or state drinking water agencies responsible for making
sure the system meets the National Primary Drinking Water Standards.
When there are contaminants in this water that can cause illness or other
problems, your public water company is required to notify you.

Most people in Oklahoma receive water from a community water system
that provides its customers with an annual water quality report, also
known as a Consumer Confidence Report. Normally, you will receive it
with your water bill once a year in July. The report contains information
on contaminants found, possible health effects, and the water’s source. If
you do not receive a report, contact your water supplier.

Private Water Supplies
If you do not get your water from a PWS, then you are on a private
water supply. Federal and state governments do not regulate privately
owned wells in Oklahoma; therefore, you alone are responsible for assuring your
water is safe and of adequate quality for your needs. For this reason, routine testing
for a few of the most common contaminants is highly recommended. Even if you
currently have a safe, pure water supply, regular testing can be valuable because it
establishes a record of water quality. This record helps resolve any future problems
or if you are considering selling or purchasing a property with a well water supply.

The following questions will help determine when to test your private drinking
water. Additional information can be obtained from the EPA:
https://www.epa.gov/privatewells, and the Water Systems Council:
https://tinyurl.com/3zf2h29h.

Q: How frequently should I test?
Test water every year for total coliform bacteria, nitrate/nitrite, conductivity, and
pH. It is especially important to have these tests performed if you have a new well
or have replaced or repaired the pipes, pressure tank, pump, or well casing. If there
is an abrupt or noticeable change in your water, you should also have it tested.             This publication is issued by the
                                                                                             Oklahoma Department of Environmental
                                                                                             Quality authorized by Robert Singletary,
Q: Do you expect to have a new baby in the household?                                        Executive Director. Copies have been
                                                                                             prepared at a cost of $0.159 each. Copies
It is preferable to test your water for coliform bacteria and nitrate/nitrite in the early   have been deposited with the publications
                                                                                             clearinghouse of the Oklahoma
months of a pregnancy. It is recommended that tests be performed before bringing an          Department of Libraries.

infant home, especially if the infant is fed formula or foods prepared with well water.      (Fact Sheets\SELS\Home Water Testing.
                                                                                             indd 10/2024)
Home Water Testing

Q: Do you have taste, odor, and staining issues?
Test for sulfate, chloride, iron, manganese, hardness, and corrosivity (pH and alkalinity) every
three years. If you suspect other contaminants, test for those also.

Q: Has there been a chemical leak or fuel spill near your water supply?
Test your well for chemical contaminants, such as volatile organic compounds (VOCs). Tests
can be expensive, so consider limiting them to possible problems specific to your situation. To
find out about possible impurities in your area, you may contact DEQ, an environmental consul-
tant, or an accredited laboratory.

Q: Are there unexplained illnesses or persons with compromised health in your family?
Have you noticed a change in water taste, odor, color, or clarity?
If so, you may need to test your water more than once a year.

Q: Are there other times when you should test your water?
Regardless of your water source, two situations may require additional testing.

Household plumbing or water service lines are suspected to contain lead. Most public water
systems test for lead as a regular part of water monitoring. These tests give a system-wide
picture but do not reflect conditions at a specific household faucet. The only way to confirm if
lead is present or absent in your home drinking water is to have it tested.

Some faucets and pitcher filters can remove lead from drinking water. If you use a filter to
remove lead, be sure you get one that is certified to remove lead by NSF International:
https://www.nsf.org/.

For more information, visit EPA’s Ground and Drinking Water website: https://go.usa.gov/xz85A,
and EPA’s Safe Drinking Water Information website: https://go.usa.gov/xz85d.

Considering the purchase of a home water treatment unit. Find out what is in your water and
what you might want to remove before contacting potential dealers. Different treatment types
remove different pollutants or impurities and no one device does it all. Be informed so you can
make the right decision.

For guidance, see EPA’s “Home Drinking Water Filtration Fact Sheet” https://go.usa.gov/xz856,
or contact EPA’s Safe Drinking Water Hotline at (800) 426-4791.

Q: Who can test your water?
DEQ’s State Environmental Laboratory is EPA-certified to test your water. If you wish to use
another lab, make certain it is accredited to perform the tests you need. Contact DEQ’s Lab
Accreditation program at (405) 702-1000 or visit online at https://go.usa.gov/xz8nf.

Q: How do I collect samples?
Contact the lab where you will send your samples for instructions on how to collect the samples and
to determine if special sample containers are required. Most labs provide sampling kits, and some
may send a trained technician to collect the sample for you for an additional fee.

Additional Information
For additional information visit our website at https://www.deq.ok.gov/divisions/sels/. You may also
contact the State Environmental Laboratory at (405) 702-1000 or selsd@deq.ok.gov.Contact the
DEQ State Environmental Laboratory at (405) 702-1000, (866) 412-3057, or selsd@deq.ok.gov.
                                                                                                       2
Home Water Testing
When to Test Your Well Water

Conditions or nearby activities                   Recommended Tests

Recurrent gastro-intestinal illness               Coliform bacteria

Water with laxative effects                       Sulfate, conductivity

Infant in the home                                Coliform bacteria, nitrite-nitrate

                                                  Coliform bacteria, nitrite-nitrate (Contact Oklahoma Dept. of Human
Home daycare
                                                  Services, Child Care Services, 1-844-834-8314 for testing requirements)
Household plumbing contains lead
                                                  pH, lead, copper
(built prior to 1988)

Radon in indoor air or region is radon rich       Radon

Scaly residues, soaps do not lather,              Hardness
determining if water softener is working          (before and/or after treatment)

Water softener needed to treat hardness           Manganese, iron

                                                  • Green/blue - Copper
Colored deposits, stained plumbing
                                                  • White - TDS, sulfate, calcium
fixtures or laundry
                                                  • Reddish brown/black - Iron, iron related bacteria, and manganese

Bitter/acrid taste or odor                        Corrosivity (pH, alkalinity), metals

Rotten egg odor                                   Sulfate reducing bacteria

Pitting of pipes, plumbing, faucets               Corrosivity (pH, alkalinity), lead

Rapid wear of water treatment equipment           Corrosivity (pH, alkalinity), conductivity

Nearby areas of intensive agriculture             Nitrite-nitrate, pesticides, coliform bacteria, conductivity

Animal feedlots nearby                            Nitrite-nitrate, conductivity, coliform bacteria

Coal or other mining operation nearby             Metals, pH, corrosivity

Gas or oil drilling operation nearby              Chloride, sulfate, sodium, barium, strontium, conductivity

Odor of gasoline, diesel or fuel oil and near gas
                                                  Total petroleum hydrocarbons (TPH)
station or buried fuel tanks
Dump, junkyard, landfill, factory or
                                                  VOC, total dissolved solids (TDS), pH, sulfate, chloride, metals
dry-cleaning operation nearby

Salty taste or a heavily salted roadway nearby    Chloride, conductivity, sodium

Do you live in Oklahoma, Logan, Canadian,
                                                  Uranium, chromium, arsenic, selenium
Cleveland, or Pottawatomie county?

                                                                                                                            3
