
    
        
Tennessee Department of Health Division of Laboratory Services
        
        
        
        
        
            
        
        
            
        
        
            
        
        
        
            
        
        
        
        
        
        
            
        
        
        
        
            
        
        
            
        
        
            
        
        
            
        
            
        
        
            
        
        
            
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
        
    
        
            
    
        
        
        
        
        
    
    
        
Skip to Main Content
        
            
    
            
	
		
    
        
        
        
    
        
        
        
    
    
    
    
        
        
        
    
        
            
                
                
            
            
                
Go to TN.gov
            
        
    
    
        
            
                
            
        
        
            
  
    
    
    
    
  
        
    
    
    
    
    
	
	
    
        
            
                
                    
Go to TN.gov
                
            
            
                Section
            
            
                
                    
                        
Go to Health
                    
                
                
                
            
                
                
                
                    
Calendar
                
            
                
                
                
                    
Careers
                
            
                
                
                
                    
Contact
                
            
                
                
                
                    
Department 
                
            
                
                
                
                    
Licensure
                
            
                
                
                
                    
Local 
                
            
                
                
                
                    
News
                
            
                
                
                
                    
Vital Records
                
            
            
                
                    
Print This Page
                
            
            
                
                    
Print This Page
                
            
            
                
                    
Go to Search
                
            
        
    
    
            
    
        
        
            
            
    
    
    
        
    
            
    
    
        
            
                
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                
Home
                            
                        
                        
                   
                
                    
                        
                        
                           
Division of Laboratory Services
                        
                   
                
            
        
    
        
        
    
        
    
Division of Laboratory Services
    
        
The Division of Laboratory Services provides quality-assured microbiological and environmental chemistry laboratory services and assists other Tennessee laboratories in developing and strengthening their laboratory services.
        
    
        
    
    
    
    
    
        
        
        
            
                
                    
                        
                            About
                        
                    
                
                    
                        
                            Announcements
                        
                    
                
                    
                        
                            Antibiotic Resistance Laboratory Network
                        
                    
                
                    
                        
                            Careers in Public Health
                        
                    
                
                    
                        
                            Contacts
                        
                    
                
                    
                        
                            Directory of Services
                        
                    
                
                    
                        
                            Laboratory Sections
                        
                    
                
                    
                        
                            Licensure and Accreditation
                        
                    
                
                    
                        
                            Newborn Screening Laboratory
                        
                    
                
                    
                        
                            Newborn Screening Performance Dashboard
                        
                    
                
                    
                        
                            Newborn Screening Services Directory
                        
                    
                
                    
                        
                            Requisitions and Forms
                        
                    
                
                    
                        
                            Safety
                        
                    
                
                    
                        
                            Training and Workshops
                        
                    
                
                    
                        
                            Web Portal
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        
    
    
    
    
        
About the State Laboratory
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
The Mission of Laboratory Services is to provide high quality analytical services of medical and environmental testing and to achieve the Mission of the Department of Health. The Tennessee Department of Health (TDH) Laboratory Services consists of the Microbiology Laboratories and Environmental Laboratories in Nashville and Knoxville. The central laboratory is housed in Nashville in a dedicated facility with state of the art equipment. 
The laboratory consists of 125 full time employees. The Microbiology Laboratories are licensed by the State of Tennessee Laboratory Licensing Service (LLS) and certified by the Department of Health and Human Services Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CLIA Laboratory Certificate of Compliance) to perform clinical testing. The laboratories perform a wide range of microbiological testing in the areas of Bacteriology, Molecular Biology, Environmental Microbiology, Mycobacteriology, Parasitology, Mycology, Immunoserology, Virology, and Newborn Screening. Laboratory Services is also the State Emergency Preparedness Laboratory for biological agents. 
The Environmental Laboratories in Nashville and Knoxville are certified by the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) under the Safe Drinking Water Act. Each laboratory follows guidelines, regulations, and methodology as prescribed by the EPA, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC), and other federal or state programs. The Environmental Laboratory consists of the Chemistry, Radiochemistry, Aquatic Biology, and Chemical Terrorism Laboratories. The Environmental Laboratories perform testing in support of other state departments such as the Department of Environment and Conservation, Department of Labor, and the Department of Transportation.
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Objectives
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Provide quality-assured microbiological and environmental chemistry laboratory services.
Assist other Tennessee laboratories in developing and strengthening their laboratory services.
Serve the entire state as a reference laboratory for difficult, unusual or otherwise unavailable laboratory procedures.
Serve as a resource of information on laboratory practice.
Test human and related specimens and environmental samples.
Assist in the development, evaluation, and standardization of medical and environmental laboratory testing procedures.
Participate in special studies and research projects.
Provide refresher training and information updates.
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Laboratory Locations
    
    
    
    
    
Nashville Central Laboratory
Address for letter (non-specimen) mail
Physical Location and Address 
for items shipped by carriers other than US Postal Service (FedEx, UPS)
Address for specimens shipped via the US Postal Service
TDH Laboratory Services
630 Hart Lane
Nashville, TN 37243
TDH Laboratory Services
630 Hart Lane
Nashville, TN 37216
TDH Laboratory Services
P.O. Box 305130
Nashville, TN 37230
    
    
    
Knoxville Regional Laboratory
Address for letter and specimen mail via US Postal Service
Physical Location and address for items shipped by carriers other than the US Postal Service (FedEx, UPS)
Knoxville Regional Laboratory
P.O. Box 59019
Knoxville, TN 37950
Knoxville Regional Laboratory
2101 Medical Center Way
Knoxville, TN 37920
                    
                
                    
                        
    
    
    
    
        
Announcements
    
    
    
    
    
 
Subject
 
 
Newborn Screening Submissions and Reporting for Health Departments 
05/29/2026
 
2026 Newborn Screening List of Disorders and Report Comments
04/29/2026
 
Addition of GAMT to TN Newborn Screening Panel
04/27/2026
 
2026 Reportable Disease Guidance
    -  
List for Laboratories
    -  
Detailed Laboratory Guidance
01/01/2026
 
Removal of NBS Screening for Nonketotic Hyperglycinemia (NKH)
 
(Effective 08/01/2025)
06/25/2025
 
Resumption in testing of HIV and HCV Serologic Testing 
 
(Effective 04/01/2025)
03/31/2025
 
Temporary Suspension of HIV, HCV, and HBV Serologic Testing
 
(Effective 02/26/2025)
02/20/2025
 
Laboratory Web Portal 
1/24/2025
 
ACTION REQUIRED - Timeline for Full Transition to the Newborn Screening Secure Remote Viewer
11/22/2024
 
Temporary Suspension of Pyrazinamide (PZA) Drug Susceptibility Testing for TB
08/16/2024
 
Rabies Submission Requisition (PH-4177) rev.7/2024
08/12/2024
 
Changes in reporting of 
Salmonella
 serotyping results 
(Effective 08/19/2024)
08/12/2024
 
**Update** Use of the State Newborn Screening Secure Remote Viewer
06/26/2024
 
Discontinuation of Molecular Detection of Bacterial Pathogens in Cerebral Spinal Fluid (CSF)
 
(Effective 04/11/2024)
04/11/2024
 
Change in sampling material shipments to public water systems submitters
                        
(Effective 04/01/2024)
03/27/2024
 
2024 Reportable Disease Guidance
    -  
List for Laboratories
    -  
Detailed Laboratory Guidance
1/22/2024
 
Newborn Screening Results Portal for Providers 
12/13/2023
 
Discontinuation of SARS-CoV2 Testing at Knoxville Regional Laboratory
 
(Effective 12/11/2023)
12/11/2023
 
Discontinuation of SARS-CoV2 IgG Antibody Testing
 
(Effective 11/20/2023)
11/20/2023
 
Newborn Screening Fee Increase 
(Effective 1/1/2024)
: NBS Fee Increase Notice to Tennessee Birthing Hospitals
11/14/2023
 
Ordering Newborn Screening Forms &amp; Track-Kit Memorandum
10/04/2023
 
Updated Requisition Forms (rev. 7/2023)
   -  
Clinical Submission Requisition (PH-4182) rev. 7/2023
   -  
Select Agent Rule-Out Submission Requisition (PH-4263) rev. 7/2023
   -  
Influenza and Respiratory Panel Submission Requisition (PH-4149) rev. 7/2023
     8/23/2023
 
Updated Requisition Forms (rev. 8/2022)
   -  
Clinical Submission Requisition (PH-4182) rev. 8/2022
   -  
Select Agent Rule-Out Submission Requisition (PH-4263) rev. 8/2022
   -  
Influenza and Respiratory Panel Submission Requisition (PH-4149) rev. 8/2022
3/20/2023
 
Change in Water Bacteriological Analysis Forms and Shipping Update
1/1/2023
 
2023 Reportable Disease Guidance
    -  
List for Laboratories
    -  
Detailed Laboratory Guidance
1/1/2023
 
Discontiuation of CT/GC &amp; Trichomonas Testing for Patients Under 14 Years of Age
12/12/2022
 
Newborn Screening Dashboard
 
 
Rabies Processing Restored at Nashville Central Laboratory
2/14/2022
 
HCV Laboratory Reporting Changes 
12/13/2021
      
Environmental Microbiolgoy Fee Increase
9/01/2021
 
TN Emerging Infections Program Bench Buddy
7/27/2021
 
COVID-19 Resources
   -  
COVID-19 Sequencing Guidance
   -  
TN Lab Web Portal Quick Guide - COVID-19
   -  
TN Lab Web Portal Presentation  - COVID-19
   -  
Guidance for SARS-CoV2-2 Point of Care and Rapid Testing (CDC)
   -  
Interim Laboratory Biosafety Guidelines for Handling and Processing Specimens  Associated with Coronavirus Disease 2019
 (CDC)
   -  
Point of Care COVID-19 Antigen Testing Biosafety Guidance
 (DOT)
   -  
Guide to Packaging Category B Samples Poster
 (DOT)
   -  
Safety Advisory Notice for the Transportation of COVID-19 Diagnostic Samples
 (DOT)
 
 
HIV and HCV Change in Specimen Collection Device
9/12/2021
 
Change for Thyroid Stimulating Hormone (TSH) Newborn Screening for Low Birth Weight (LBW) Infants
7/22/2021
 
Special Care Nursery NICU Recommendations
7/2/2021
 
Infectious Substance Packing and Shipping Resources
7/22/2021
 
SPHL Test Menu Changes
 - 
Memorandum
4/6/2021
                    
                
                    
                        
    
    
    
    
        
Antibiotic Resistance Laboratory Network (ARLN)
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
The Antibiotic Resistance Lab Network was created in 2016 in response to the 2015 national plan of action to detect and combat the rising threat of antibiotic resistance.  The AR Lab Network is made up of seven regional laboratories, five cities, the National Tuberculosis Molecular Surveillance Center, along with sentinel laboratories in all fifty states and Puerto Rico.  The Tennessee Department of Health, Division of Laboratory Services has been named the Southeast Regional Laboratory, performing core testing for Tennessee, Georgia, Alabama, Florida, Mississippi, Louisiana, and Puerto Rico.
The goals of ARLN are:
Detect
.  Enhance detection for resistance tracking, identifying pathogen-specific solutions and creating public health strategies.
Prevent
.  Develop better infection control guidelines to prevent and combat future AR threats.
Innovate
.  Utilize the CDC AR Isolate Bank as a tool for improved diagnostics and novel therapeutic options.
Respond
.  Work with state and regional labs to identify local transmission patterns and support outbreak response.
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
            
            
                
                
                    
                        
    
    
    
    
        
General Information
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Email:            
ARLN.HEALTH@TN.GOV
Phone:         
 615-262-6300
Address:      
 630 Hart Lane
                        Nashville, TN 37216 
Shipping Information 
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
ARLN Laboratory Manager
 
Zach Perry, M(ASCP)CM
Zachary.Perry@tn.gov
615-741-3437
    
    
                    
                
                    
                        
    
    
    
    
        
Related Links
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Health Associated Infections and Antibiotic Resistance Program
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
CDC Antibiotic Resistance (AR) Lab Network
CDC AR Laboratory Testing and Resources
CDC Antibiotic Resistance Investments Map
CDC 
Candida auris
CDC Gonorrhea Antibiotic Resistance
    
    
                    
                
            
        
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
CRO Testing
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
The ARLN CRO (Carbapenem-Resistant Organisms) section supports state laboratory capacity to rapidly detect antibiotic resistance (AR) in certain organisms in healthcare facilities and the community.  The TN ARLN CRO section activities include:
Testing of Carbapenem-Resistant Enterobacteriaceae (CRE), Carbapenem-Resistant 
Pseudomonas aeruginosa
 (CRPA) and Carbapenem-Resistant 
Acinetobacter
 (CRAB)- collectively referred to as Carbapenem-Resistant Organisms (CRO) 
Detecting existing and emerging types of antibiotic resistance more effectively and generating stronger data to protect people and combat future resistance threats
CRE Colonization Screening
Targeted surveillance
ARLN CRO Sample Submission Information (2018)
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Antifungal Resistance Testing
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
The Special Microbiology section will perform antifungal resistance testing on
 Candida
 species, including 
Candida auris
 and certain other emerging resistant
 Candida
 species.   
Identification of 
Candida
 genus and species is preferred, but not required.  Speciation can be performed on
 Candida
 isolates that are unable to be identified at the submitter level. 
Hospitals, regional healthcare facilities and public health laboratories within the six-state, Southeast region may submit isolates for testing. 
Antifungal resistance testing will not be performed on 
C. albicans.
Candida
 Isolate Submission Information (2018)
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
General Bacteriology GC
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Gonorrhea has developed resistance against many first-line drugs and is becoming increasingly difficult to treat.  According to the CDC, It is estimated that there are over 800,000 new gonorrhea infections each year and approximately one-third of those infections are resistant to at least one antibiotic.  The General Bacteriology GC ARLN section conducts CDC-directed antimicrobial susceptibility testing of 
Neisseria gonorrhoeae
.  The GC ARLN section currently accepts isolates from CDC identified GISP and SURRG sites.  
    
    
                    
                
                    
                        
    
    
    
    
        
Laboratory Careers in Public Health
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Career Opportunities
TDH Laboratory Services has the following career opportunities available at the Public Health Laboratory:
No Postings at this time
*PH Laboratory Scientist/Manager candidates 
MUST
 submit a copy of all transcripts with the application in order to verify the candidate meets minimum requirements for the position.
**PH Laboratory Manager (clinical) candidates 
MUST hold a TN Laboratory Supervisor License
 issued by the 
TN Medical Laboratory Board (2017)
.   
Click here to apply.
    
    
                    
                
                    
                        
    
    
    
    
        
Laboratory Contacts
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
            
            
                
                
                    
                        
    
    
    
    
        
Nashville Central Laboratory
630 Hart Lane 
Nashville, TN 37243
Phone:  615-262-6300
Fax:  615-262-6393
    
    
                    
                
                    
                        
    
    
    
    
        
Knoxville Regional Laboratory
2101 Medical Center Way
Knoxville, TN 37920
Phone:  865-549-5201
Fax:  865-594-5199
    
    
                    
                
            
        
    
    
    
    
Directors and Assistant Directors
Email Address
Phone  
Kara Levinson, Ph.D., MPH, D(ABMM) - Lab Director
Kara.Levinson@tn.gov
615-262-6300
Randal Fowler, Ph.D., D(ABMM) - Clinical Division Director
Randal.Fowler@tn.gov
615-262-6301
David Silva, MS, DLM(ASCP)CM - Lab Operations Director
David.Silva@tn.gov
615-262-6300
Bill Moore - Environmental Division Director
Bill.Moore@tn.gov
615-837-5474
AIleen Sammon - Administrative Services Director
Aileen.Sammon@tn.gov
615-262-6300
Matthew Martin,  MS, Ph.D. - Microbiology Assistant Director
Matthew.Martin@tn.gov
615-262-6460
Abelardo Moncayo, Ph.D. - Vector Borne Assistant Director
Abelardo.Moncayo@tn.gov
615-262-6356
Craig Edwards - Environmental Division Assistant Director
Craig.Edwards@tn.gov
615-262-6345
Jennifer R. Mckenize, Ph.D., BCLD/HCLD(ABB), NRCC-TC - Newborn Screening Assistant Director
Jennifer.McKenzie@tn.gov
615-262-6352
Keith Morris, M(ASCP)CM - Serology/Molecular Virology Assistant Director
Keith.Morris@tn.gov
615-837-5471
Vacant - Genomics Assistant Director
 
615-262-6461
Lindsay Jolly, MPH, CPH, MLS(ASCP)CM - Lab Ops Assistant Director
Lindsay.Jolly@tn.gov
615-741-7725
 
Laboratory Operations 
Email Address
Phone   
Sheri Roberts, MT - Lab Support Manager
Sheri.Roberts@tn.gov
615-262-6381
Julie A. Viruez, MLS(ASCP)CM - Safety Officer
Julie.Viruez@tn.gov
615-587-9917
Russell B. Bowden, Jr., MS HSA, MT(ASCP) - Outreach Coordinator
Russell.Bowden@tn.gov
615-262-6496
Emily Knecht - Environmental Quality Coordinator
Emily.Knecht@tn.gov
615-837-5474
Michelle Therrien, MS, MLT(ASCP) - Quality Coordinator
Michelle.Therrien@tn.gov
 
Amanda Uhls, M(ASCP)CM - Bioterrorism Coordinator
Amanda.Uhls@tn.gov
615-532-6545
Brian Eaton - Chemical terrorism Coordinator
Brian.Eaton@tn.gov
615-262-6399
Blanca A. Martinez, MLS(ASCP)CM - Lab Support Supervisor
Blanca.Martinez@tn.gov
615-837-5484
Kala Priester - Lab Support Supervisor
Kala.Priester@tn.gov
615-262-6395
Paula Gibbs, MPH, MLS(ASCP) - Informatics Manager 
Lab.Informatics@tn.gov
615-262-6300
 
Knoxville Regional Public Health Lab 
Email Address
Phone 
Saba Shama, MBBS, MD, DNB, CIC, M(ASCP) - Laboratory Director
Saba.Shama@tn.gov
865-549-5217
Barbara Frei, Manager
Barabara.Frei@tn.gov
865-549-5205
Ashley Carroll, MT, SM(ASCP) - Supervisor, Microbiology, Environmental Microbiology
Ashley.Carroll@tn.gov
865-549-5206
Katie Jones, MT(ASCP) - Supervisor, Serology, Rabies
Katie.Jones@tn.gov
865-549-5201
 
 
 
Department Contacts
Email Address
Phone 
Robin Rasnic, MT(ASCP) - Manager, Bacteriology
Robin.M.Rasnic@tn.gov
615-262-6363
Erica Terrell, MT(ASCP) - Supervisor, Bacteriology
Erica.Terrell@tn.gov
615-262-6371
Brielle Conway 
- 
M(ASCP)CM  - Supervisor, Bacteriology
Brielle.Conway@tn.gov
615-837-5508
Natasha Lindahl, MT(ASCP)CM  - Manager, Serology
Natasha.Lindahl@tn.gov
615-262-6350
Courtney Fisher, MS, M(ASCP)CM - Supervisor, Serology
Courtney.Fisher@tn.gov
615-262-6377
Ariana Allgood, MS, M(ASCP)CM  
-
 Supervisor, Rabies
Ariana.Allgood@tn.gov
615-262-6367
 
 
 
Jeannette P. Dill, M(ASCP) - Supervisor, Molecular Virology
Jeannette.Dill@tn.gov
615-837-5487
Maya Spann, M(ASCP)CM - Supervisor, Genomics
Maya.Spann@tn.gov
615-262-6398
Katie Nixon, MS, MT(ASCP)CM - Supervisor, Genomics
Katie.Nixon@tn.gov
 
Dorothy Baynham, MT(ASCP) - Manager, Special Microbiology
Dorothy.Baynham@tn.gov
615-262-6366
Tanya Cooper, MT(ASCP)CM - Supervisor, Special Microbiology
Tanya.Cooper@tn.gov
615-262-6369
Zach Perry, M(ASCP)CM  - Manager, ARLN CORE
Zachary.Perry@tn.gov
615-262-6340
Kristin Dunaway - Supervisor, Environmental Microbiology
Kristin.Dunaway@tn.gov
615-262-6337
Thomas Childs, MT(ASCP) - Manager, Newborn Screening, Molecular/GSP
Thomas.Childs@tn.gov
615-262-6446
Deborah Godfrey - Supervisor, Newborn Screening, Molecular/GSP
Deborah.Godfrey@tn.gov
615-837-5482
Gwendolyn McKee, MBA, BSMT - Manager, Newborn Screening, Tandem Mass/HPLC, Accessioning
Gwendolyn.McKee@tn.gov
615-262-6472
Lauren Tyler - Supervisor, Newborn Screening, Tandem Mass/HPLC, Accessioning
Lauren.Tyler@tn.gov
615-532-6583
Amanda Ingram, RN - Coordinator, Pediatric Case Management
Amanda.D.Ingram@tn.gov
615-532-8462
Carrie Perry - Manager, Aquatics
Carrie.Perry@tn.gov
615-262-6330
Patrick Leathers - Manager, Environmental Chemistry
Patrick.Leathers@tn.gov
615-262-6487
Sarah Driskell - Manager, Radiochemistry
Sarah.Driskell@tn.gov
615-262-6335
                    
                
                    
                        
    
    
    
    
        
Alphabetical Directory of Laboratory Services
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Disease, Suspected Agent, or Requested Test in Alphabetical Order
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
            
            
                
                
                    
                        
    
    
    
    
        
A 
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Acinetobacter
 species, Carbapenem-resistant
Aerobic bacteria
Anthrax - 
Bacillus anthracis
​
Arboviral Panel
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
B
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Bacillus anthracis
BioFire FilmArray, GI Panel
Blastomyces culture
Blood Parasite
Botulism 
Clostridium botulinum
Brucella
 species
 (Brucellosis)
Burkholderia mallei 
(
Glanders)
Burkholderia pseudomallei
 (
Melidosis)
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
C
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
C &amp; S
 (Stool Culture)
Campylobacter
 species
Candida auris
 colonization screening
Candida
 
species (other than 
C. auris
)
Carbapenem_producing_organism_colonization_screening
Carbapenem Resistant 
Acinetobactor baumanii
 colonization screening
Carbapenemase Resistant Enterobacterales
Chlamydia trachomatis
 - Nucleic Acid Amplification Testing (NAAT)
Clostridioides difficile
 (Clostridium difficile/C. diff)
Clostridium botulinum
 
Clostridium perfringens
 
(gas gangrene)
Clostridium tetani
Coccidioides
Corynebacterium diphtheriae
​
Corynebacterium ulcerans
Coxiella burnetii
 (Q fever)
Cronobacter
 species
Cryptosporidium
 species
Cyclospora
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
D
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Diphtheria
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
E
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Eastern Equine Encephalitis (EEE)
Ebola Virus (Zaire)
Ebola Virus species 
Ehrlichia
 species
Environmental microbiology testing
Enterobacterales, Carbapenem-resistant (CRE)
Escherichia coli
 - Shiga toxin-producing (STEC)
Expanded Antimicrobial Susceptibility Testing
 for Hard to Treat Infections
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
F
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Foodborne illness outbreak - contact 
CEDEP
 for guidance
Francisella tularensis
Fungal culture
 (Mycology)
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
G
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Glanders -
 
Burkholderia mallei
Gonorrhea (Nucleic Acid Amplification Testing-NAAT)
Gonorrhea culture - 
Neisseria gonorrhoeae
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
H
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Haemophilus influenza
Hepatitis B Prenatal Screen
Hepatitis C
Hepatitis C Viral Load
Herpes Simplex Virus (NAAT)
Histoplasma
 
(culture)
Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV)
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
I
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Influenza virus, PCR
Inorganic chemistry
Intestinal parasites
    
    
                    
                
                    
                        
    
    
    
    
        
L
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
LaCrosse encephalitis virus
 (California Group)
Legionella
 species
Listeria
 
species
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
M
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Malaria
 (Blood Parasite)
Marburg Virus
Measles (Rubeola), PCR
Measles (Rubeola), Serology
Meliodosis (
Burkholderia pseudomallei
)
MERS-CoV
Monkey Pox (MPox)
Mumps Virus, PCR
Mycobacterium tuberculosis
 - 
(Tuberculosis) (Acid-fast Bacilli)
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
N
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Neisseria gonorrhoeae 
(Gonorrhea), culture
Neisseria gonorrhoeae
 (Gonorrhea), Nucleic Acid Amplification Testing (NAAT)
Neisseria gonorrhoeae
 Antimicrobial Susceptibility Testing
Neisseria meningitidis
Newborn screening— 
Tennessee Newborn Screening Program Information Toolkit
Non-Variola Orthopox
Norovirus
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
O
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Organic Chemistry—Environmental Laboratories
Orthopox
Ova and parasites
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
P
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Parasites, intestinal
Plague—
Yersinia pestis
Pseudomonas aeruginosa
,
 Carbapenem-resistant
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Q
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Q fever (
Coxiella burnetii
)
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
R
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Rabbit fever—
 
Francisella tularensis
Rabies, animal
Radiation surveillance
Radiochemistry
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
S
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Salmonella species
Shigella 
species
St. Louis Encephalitis Virus
 serology
Staphylococcus aureus
, MRSA, culture
Staphylococcus aureus
, VRSA/VISA
Stool Culture (C&amp;S)
Streptococcus pneumoniae
, invasive disease
Streptococcus pyogenes
, invasive or toxin-producing
Syphilis serology
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
T
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Total coliform
Trichomonas vaginalis
 
by Nucleic Acid Amplification (NAAT)
Tularemia—
Francisella tularensis
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
U
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Undulant fever—
Brucella
 species
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
V
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Variola (Orthopox)
Vibrio
 species
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
W
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Water bacteriology
Water chemistry
West Nile Virus (2020)
 - Birds and Mosquitos
Western Equine Encephalitis
Whole Genome Sequencing (WGS)
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Y
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Yersinia
 pestis
Yersinia
 species
 (not 
Y. pestis
)
    
    
                    
                
            
        
    
                    
                
                    
                        
    
    
    
    
        
Laboratory Sections
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
The State Laboratory provides environment services related to general and radiological chemistry, water microbiology, chemical terrorism and aquatic biology. Each of these functions ensures testing capacity is available to support the public health and environmental protection objectives of the state to perform chemical, bacteriological, and radiological analyses, and environmental sampling for drinking water, surface water, waste water, sediment, air, fish, soil and hazardous waste.
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Aquatic Biology
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
The quality of Tennessee’s water bodies (reservoirs, rivers and streams) over time can be assessed by the study of biological indicators such as aquatic invertebrates and diatoms that are collected using various Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and TN Department of Environmental Conservation – Division of Water Resources (TDEC-DWR) methods such as Semi-quantitative, Biorecon or RPS sampling techniques and in-stream characterization assessments.
A sampling of aquatic invertebrates can provide a measurement of water body health unlike chemical analysis or the presence of fish which is unable to identify long-term systemic pollution. These samples are easily non-invasively collected without expensive equipment. The data obtained from these samples can serve to indicate the need for additional data collection. The data is then reported to TDEC-DWR-Planning and Standards, which is responsible for generating reports that summarize the general water quality of surface waters in Tennessee.
The laboratory also collects fish which are then analyzed by the chemistry section to determine the level of pollutants. Tissues are tested for common analytes such as heavy metals, pesticides, and PCB’s.
For more information o, please contact the Aquatic Biology Laboratory Manager, Pat Alicea, 
Patricia.Alicea@tn.gov
 or 615-262-6327.
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Chemical Incident Response
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
The Tennessee Department of Health Division of Laboratory Services provides healthcare facility laboratory outreach support for local, state and national preparedness response plans related to chemical release health emergencies. Laboratory testing would be an integral part of a response to these events.
The Division of Laboratory Services offers free on-site training as guidance for healthcare facility emergency response to human chemical exposure incidents. Please contact the Chemical Terrorism Coordinator to obtain more information or to schedule a training session at 615-262-6399.
The TN Chemical Terrorism Laboratory is a CDC (LRN-C) classified level 2 laboratory and must maintain testing capabilities for exposures to chemical terrorism agents such as cyanide, toxic metals, and toxic industrial chemicals. Although Level 2 laboratories test a smaller list of chemical threat agents, LRN-C methods are customizable and can be readily adapted to detect broad classifications of new and emerging threat agents.
For urgent inquiries or assistance during non-business hours, please contact the Chemical Terrorism Coordinator at 615-262-6384.
There are unique requirements for specimen collection, storage, packaging and shipment of clinical specimens collected during a chemical exposure event.
 
TO REPORT A POSSIBLE CHEMICAL TERRORIST INCIDENT, CALL THE DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC HEALTH EMERGENCY DESK AT (213) 989-7140.
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Environmental Chemistry
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
The Chemistry Laboratory supports the environmental protection functions of the state government by performing chemical analysis on samples collected by the Tennessee Department of Environment and Conservation (TDEC) and Tennessee Department of Health (TDH).
Consisting of two sections, General Inorganic Chemistry and Metals, the laboratory focuses on monitoring the quality of environmental and drinking water.  Samples tested are typically sourced from lakes, streams, rivers, ponds, open wells, private wells, unprotected springs, or from any source where there is visible evidence of contamination.
For more information or help with bottle orders, please contact us by email at 
TDOH-EnvLogin.Health@TN.gov
 or by calling the Chemistry Laboratory Manager at 615-262-6346.
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Environmental Microbiology
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
The Environmental Microbiology Unit performs bacteriological analyses on water samples from both public and private water systems. Samples are examined for the presence of the coliform group of bacteria, which are indicators of fecal contamination. Water is not examined for pathogenic bacteria, as the prospect of isolating them from water is very remote.
As a laboratory certified and audited directly by the US Environmental Protection Agency and A2LA, the laboratory adheres to the specifications of methods approved by EPA.
The Environmental Microbiology Laboratory performs bacteriological analyses on water samples submitted by public water systems. Samples are examined for the presence of the coliform group of bacteria, which are indicators of fecal contamination. Water is not examined for pathogenic bacteria. This laboratory does not examine water samples for Giardia or Cryptosporidium.
Environmental Microbiology accepts samples from public water systems, swimming pools, lakes, streams, rivers, ponds, open wells, private wells, unprotected springs, or from any source where there is visible evidence of contamination.
The Environmental Microbiology Department preforms the following tests:·      
Total Coliform/E. coli testing by either presence/absence or quantitative means.
Heterotrophic Bacterial Testing
PLEASE NOTE: Samples for presence/absence analysis have a 30 hour hold time. Samples for quantitative analysis have an 8 hour hold time.
Environmental Microbiology provides sterile bottles with required forms for water sampling.
For any questions involving Environmental Microbiology, please contact Kristin Dunaway: 
Kristin.Dunaway@tn.gov
, 615-262-6337.
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Lead Testing in Schools and Child Care Centers
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
The Lead Testing in Schools and Child Care Centers (LTSCC) Program is a free, voluntary program offered by the Tennessee Department of Environment and Conservation (TDEC) to help reduce childhood lead exposure.
The LTSCC Program offers free lead in drinking water testing to eligible facilities, including Tennessee Department of Human Services (TDHS) - licensed child care centers, Head Start and Early Head Start programs, Tennessee Department of Education (TDOE) public schools, and TDOE-certified school-administered child care programs.
To enroll in the program or learn more about program offerings, 
visit the official program website
.
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Radiochemistry
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
The Tennessee State Radiochemistry Laboratory supports the environmental protection functions of the state government by performing radiological analysis on samples collected by the Tennessee Department of Energy and Conservation (TDEC). Specific divisions within TDEC that collect samples for radiological analysis are the Division of Radiological Health, Division of Remediation, and the Division of Energy/Oversight.
Examples of types of samples that are analyzed include but are not limited to, routine samples taken from the vicinity of nuclear power plants, inspection samples from sites such as scrap metal facilities and privately owned wells.
The radiochemistry laboratory is certified and accredited by the American Association for Laboratory Accreditation and by the Environmental Protection Agency through a series of audits and by performance test evaluations.
    
    
                    
                
                    
                        
    
    
    
    
        
Public Health Laboratory Licensure and Accreditation
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
TN Medical Laboratory and Personnel Licensure - Contact the 
TN Medical Laboratory Board
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Nashville Central Laboratory
CLIA Certificate
 44D0659062 Expiration: 01/04/2028
Tennessee Medical Laboratory License
Environmental A2LA Accreditation
Knoxville Regional Laboratory
CLIA Certificate
 44D0659252 Expiration: 04/21/2028
Tennessee Medical Laboratory License
Environmental A2LA Accreditation
    
    
                    
                
                    
                        
    
    
    
    
        
Newborn Screening Laboratory
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
The Tennessee Newborn Screening (NBS) Laboratory tests over 80,000 specimens each year. Tennessee Code Annotated Title 68, Chapter 5, Part 4 requires that all infants born in Tennessee receive screening for certain conditions. Laboratory tests are done to help find infants who may have one of the disorders or medical conditions.
Finding and treating these disorders early can prevent serious complications such as growth problems, developmental delays, deafness, blindness, intellectual disabilities, seizures, and sudden or early death.
 The newborn screening tests require a simple heel stick blood sample collected from newborns between 24-36 hours after birth. If the screening result for one of the laboratory tests is outside of the expected range, the program's 
Newborn Screening Follow-up
 nurses will immediately begin follow-up. This often includes contacting the infant’s physician to initiate a repeat screen, confirmation of a diagnosis, and treatment from a specialist if necessary.   
Newborn Screening Follow-up, housed in the Division of Family Health and Wellness, also provides 
parent resources
.
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
 The Newborn Screening Laboratory  recieves samples and performs testing seven days per week. 
  Department hours:    
Monday - Friday: 8:00 a.m. - 4:30 p.m.
Saturday - Sunday: 7:00 a.m. - 3:30 p.m. 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Announcements
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Newborn Screening Submissions and Reporting for Health Departments
 (Effective 05/29/206)
2026 Newborn Screening List of Disorders and Report Comments
 (Effective 04/29/2026)
Addition of GAMT to TN Newborn Screening Panel
 
(Effective 04/27/2026)
Removal of NBS Screening for Nonketotic Hyperglycinemia (NKH)
  
(Effective 08/01/2025)
ACTION REQUIRED - Timeline for Full Transition to the Newborn Screening Secure Remote Viewer
 (11/22/2024)
**Update** Use of the State Newborn Screening Secure Remote Viewer
 (06/26/2024)
NBS Fee Increase (effective 1/1/2024) Notice to Tennessee Birthing Hospitals 
(11/14/2023)
Ordering Newborn Screening Forms &amp; Track-Kit Memorandum
 (10/04/2023)
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Newborn Screening Data Entry &amp; Results Portal
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Natus SRV serves as the portal for Newborn Screening remote data entry and retrieval of results from the Tennessee Department of Health Laboratory Services. 
Dear providers, kindly click the link below to enter demographics remotely or to access and download Newborn Screening results:
Newborn Screening Data Entry &amp; Results Portal for Providers
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Filter Cards
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
For Filter Cards requests, please email 
DCLAB.supply@tn.gov
 or fax a request to (615) 262-6455.
Please be sure to include within your email or fax the following information:  
Facility name (Hospital name, not unit or floor designation) 
Shipping address 
Phone number 
Contact person  
Quantity requested 
Requisition form
  
(Only required to be submitted by Health Departments)
 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
            
            
                
                
                    
                        
    
    
    
    
        
Contact Information
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Email:
 
LabNBS.Health@tn.gov
           
Main Lab Phone:
 615-262-6300                           
NBS Lab Phone:
 615-262-6353                                     
    
    
                    
                
                    
                        
    
    
    
    
        
Shipping Information
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Shipping Information for Health Departments and Hospitals
Shipping Information for Private Clinics and Midwives
    
    
                    
                
            
        
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Resources
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
NBS List of Screened Disorders and Mailer Explanations
NBS Laboratory Brochure
Unsatisfactory Specimens Explained
Specimen Timeline 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Related Links
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Baby’s First Test
Association of Public Health Laboratories Newborn Screening and Genetics
NewSTEPs
Advisory Committee on Heritable Disorders in Newborns and Children
                 
Recommended Uniform Screening Panel
                 
Timeliness Goals
    
    
                    
                
                    
                        
    
    
    
    
        
Tennessee's Newborn Screening Performance Indicators 
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
            
            
        
        
    
	
 
                    
                
                    
                        
    
    
    
    
        
Newborn Screening Disorders Directory of Testing
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
            
            
                
                
                    
                        
    
    
    
    
        
#
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
2 Methyl 3 Hydroxy Butyric Aciduria (2M3HBA)
2,4 Dienyl CoA Reductase Deficiency (DE RED)
2-Methylbutyryl-CoA Dehydrogenase Deficiency (2MBCD)
3 Hydroxy 3 Methylglutaric Aciduria (HMG)
3 Methyl Crotonyl CoA Carboxylase Deficiency (3 MCC)
3 Methylglutaconyl CoA Hydratase Deficiency (3MGA)
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
B
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
β Ketothiolase Deficiency  (SKAT)
Biotinidase Deficiency
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
F
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Fabry Disease
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
H
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Homocystinuria (HCY)
Hypermethioninemia (MET)
Hyperornithinemia (HHH)
Hyperphenyl alaninemia (H-PHE)
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
I
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Isobutyrylglycinuria
Isovaleric Acidemia
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
L
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Long Chain L-3 Hydroxylacyl-CoA Dehydrogenase Deficiency
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
O
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Ornithine Transcarbamylase Deficiency (OTC)
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
S
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
SC Disease
Severe Combined immunodeficiency (SCID)
Short Chain Acyl-CoA Dehydrogenase Deficiency (SCAD)
Sickle Beta Thalassemia
Sickle Cell Anemia
Spinal Muscular Atrophy Type I (SMA)
Spinal Muscular Atrophy Type II (SMA)
Spinal Muscular Atrophy Type III (SMA)
Spinal Muscular Atrophy Type VI (SMA)
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
V
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Very Long Chain Acyl-CoA Dehydrogenase Deficiency (VLCAD)
    
    
                    
                
                    
                        
    
    
    
    
        
A
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Argininemia (ARG)
Arginisosuccinic Aciduria (ASA)
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
C
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Carbamoyl Phosphate Synthetase I Deficiency (CPS I)
Carnitine Acylcarnitine Translocase Deficiency (CACTD)
Carnitine Palmitoyltransferase Type I Deficiency (CPT I)
Carnitine Palmitoyltransferase Type II Deficiency (CPTII)
Carnitine Uptake Defect (CUD)
Citrullinemia Type I (CIT)
Citrullinemia Type II (CIT II)
Congenital Adrenal Hyperplasia I (CAH)
Congenital Hypothyroidism (CH)
Cystic Fibrosis (CF) 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
G
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Galactokinase Deficiency
Galactose Epimerase Deficiency
Galactosemia 
Gaucher Disease
Glutaric Acidemia Type I (GA-1)
Glutaric Acidemia Type II (GA -2)
Guanidinoacetate methyltransferase (GAMT) deficiency
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
K
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Krabbe Disease
 
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
M
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Malonic Acidemia
Maple Syrup Urine Disease (MSUD)
Medium Chain Acyl-CoA Dehydrogenase Deficiency (MCAD)
Medium/Short chain L-3 hydroxyacyl CoA Dehydrogenase Deficiency (M/SCHAD)
Methylmalonic Acidemia (MMA)
Mucopolysaccharidosis Type I (MPS I)
Mucopolysaccharidosis Type II (MPS II)
Multiple CoA Carboxylase Deficiency (MCD)
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
P
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Phenylketonuria   (PKU)
Pompe Disease
Propionic Acidemia (PROP)
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
T
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Trifunctional Protein Deficiency (TFP)
Tyrosinemia Type 1
Tyrosinemia Type 2
Tyrosinemia Type 3
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
X
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
X-linked Adrenoleukodystrophy
    
    
                    
                
            
        
    
                    
                
                    
                        
    
    
    
    
        
Requisitions &amp; Forms
    
    
    
    
    
Form
Revision Date
TN Lab Web Portal Registration Form 
March 2025
Rabies Requisition Form
 (PH-4177)
RESTRICTED TO: Public Health Departments, Veterinary Clinics, and those who have received prior authorization for testing from Epidemiology.
July 2024
Clinical Submission Requisition Form
 (PH-4182)
July 2023
Influenza and Viral Respiratory Panel Requisition Form
 (PH-4149) 
RESTRICTED TO:  Sentinal Provider Network (SPN), EIP Influenza Hospitals, and the Office of the Medical Examiner.
July 2023
Select Agent Rule Out Requisition Form
 (PH-4263)
 
For Sentinel Laboratory Use - Notification required PRIOR to sample submission
July 2023
 
Laboratory Supplies Requisition - Nashville Central Laboratory
 (PH-1580A)
December 2022
Laboratory Supplies Requisition - Knoxville Regional Laboratory
 (PH-1580C)
December 2022
                    
                
                    
                        
    
    
    
    
        
A Culture of Safety
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Successful establishment of a Culture of Safety requires that laboratory safety become an integral and apparent priority to the organization, embraced first and foremost by the top management and with the infrastructure support required to foster behaviors among its employees. As required by the Clinical Laboratory Improvement Amendments, the College of American Pathologists, and other accrediting agencies, a laboratory director needs to assume the responsibility for:
Establishing and enforcing a policy for a Culture of Safety within the lab
Identifying as many hazards as possible and specifying practices and procedures that will eliminate those hazards
Ensuring that all personnel are instructed and engaged in performing risk assessments and demonstrating that they can identify laboratory hazards in their individual work environments
Ensuring that all personnel are trained and competent in the standard practices and techniques that minimize identified workplace hazards
Provide an avenue for personnel to identify hazards and present risk-mitigation strategies to the management
Educate clinicians and nurses regarding safe specimen procurement and transport to ensure their safety and that of the laboratory personnel who receive the clinical specimens
Improving Biosafety in Our Nation's Laboratories - APHL Position Statement (2022)
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Biorisk Management
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Biorisk Management is the buzz word of the day. Biorisk is the system or process to control the safety and security risks associated with the handling or storage and disposal of biological agents and toxins in laboratories and facilities.
How do you identify these risks?
Which steps do you take to manage these risks?
How do you know your risk management is working and will continue to work?
The questions above may be answered by establishing a laboratory policy and procedure for assessing, mitigating and performing checks on activities that pose hazards in the workplace. Implementation of a comprehensive biorisk management system is critical to reduce both the safety and security risks associated with biological agents. Some key factors for establishing and implementing a successful program include commitment by top management and a focus on continual improvement. Biorisk management is not static, but fluid in nature and specific to each individual laboratory.  
Risk Assessment Templates
Updated 11/2022
Laboratory Risk Assessment Policy and Procedure (2022)
Laboratory Risk Assessment Policy and Procedure (2022)
Safety Risk Assessment Worksheet (2022)
Safety Risk Assessment Worksheet (2022)
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Special Risk Topics
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
        
            
            
                
                    
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    Decontamination
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                
    
    
    
    
        
Decontamination
-The removal or inactivation of biological agents by physical or chemical means.
Disinfection
-A procedure, usually chemical, that inactivates viruses or kills vegetative bacteria, but not necessarily resistant forms such as spores.
Sanitize
-An agent that reduces the numbers of vegetative bacteria.
Sterilize
-The complete elimination or destruction of all forms of life by a chemical or physical means.
Disinfection suffixes
-cide
- Kills (determined by specific testing)
Examples:
Bactericide
 -
 (= germicide)-Destroys vegetative bacteria only.
Tuberculocide
 
- Destroys Mycobacterium tuberculosis.
Sporocide
 - 
Destroys spores.
-static
- Prohibits growth but may not kill.
Examples:
Bacteriostatic - prevents growth of vegetative bacteria
Tuberculostatic - prohibits growth of Mycobacterium tuberculosis
​In the U.S. manufacturers must register disinfectants. 
The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) maintains 12 lists of chemical disinfectants
. 
Desirable disinfectant characteristics 
(no one disinfectant possesses all these):
Broad spectrum
High efficiency
Not affected by organic matter
Non-toxic, non-corrosive, non-flammable
Odorless
Inexpensive
Environmentally friendly
In order to effectively eliminate pathogens it is important to:
Select the appropriate disinfectant for the agent to be killed or inactivated
Use the proper amount of disinfectant and allow sufficient contact time
Remember that the physical act of wiping is an important part of disinfection
Remember:
There is no universal decontamination method for biological materials
It is important to know and understand decontamination definitions
Disinfection efficacy can be influenced by concentration, contact time, etc.
Selection of an appropriate decontamination method may be a trade-off (the perfect disinfectant does not exist)
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Biological Spill Preparedness in the Laboratory
Advanced preparedness and training for management of spills in the laboratory is essential. Spill kits should be strategically located throughout each laboratory section and should contain all items needed for the clean up to be performed expeditiously. Only trained staff should be responsible for spill clean-up.  
Biological Spill Kits Should Contain
• 1 gallon of undiluted EPA approved disinfectant
• 2 cloth towels (bath size or larger)
• Latex/ nitrile gloves
• Warning signs and tape
• Dust pan
• Autoclave bags
• Booties
• Tongs
• Spill dedicated bucket and mop
Biological Chemical Spill Cleanup Procedure
1. Immediately inform others working in the area of potentially infectious aerosols or other hazards. 
Clear the area if risk is unacceptable for workers to continue while spill is managed. Post spill warning sign. Report to Lab manager, supervisor, and safety officer. Clean-up should be initiated only by trained personnel who are properly donned with appropriate personal protective equipment.
2. If aerosols are possible, allow aerosols to be eliminated by air handling system by waiting 30 minutes before re-entering spill area to begin clean-up. If spill risk did not result in this step, proceed to step number 3.
3. Obtain spill kit.
4. Pour disinfectant into bucket after preparation according to manufacturer recommendation.
5. Immerse towels into bucket of disinfectant.
6. Place disinfectant soaked towels over spill.
7. Allow appropriate contact time (usually a minimum of 20 minutes, but follow disinfectant manufacturer’s directions).
8. If sharps are present under the towels, use long handled tongs to lift back the towel and transfer any broken glass/sharps, if present, to sharps containers. If not, skip to step number 9.
9. Transfer wet towels to large autoclave bag using long handled tongs.
10. Repeat the process of disinfection with cloth or paper towels as necessary.
11. Use the mop to wipe up excess disinfectant from surface, working from edges toward center of spill site.
12. Clean and decontaminate surrounding floor and work surface areas where splashes may have settled from the spill.
13. Don new pair of gloves and place all discard material in autoclave bag.
14. Close autoclave bag/s and place in appropriate secondary container ready for autoclave or for external vendor pick-up.
15. Be sure you notify and give a report to those in the vicinity during the spill and who managed the spill.
16. Depending on the nature of the spill, notification and a trip to occupational health may be required.
17. Perform a risk assessment and document the incident in order to allow the process to be examined for future efforts of prevention. 
    
    
                            
                        
                    
                
            
                
                    
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    MALDI-TOF Technology
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                
    
    
    
    
        
Matrix Assisted Laser Desorption Ionization - Time of Flight – Mass Spectrometry (MALDI-TOF)
MALDI
 – Irradiation of the sample matrix by a laser produces ions
TOF
 – Electro-magnetic force is applied to the ions simultaneously, resulting in ionic acceleration in a flight tube. Ions travel through the flight tube at speeds based on mass. Lowest mass ions will reach the detector first - heaviest mass ions reach the detector last.
MALDI-TOF analysis creates a protein fingerprint spectra unique to the organism and the spectra is compared to a known spectral database for the organism identification. Prior to  implementation of the testing, a safety risk assessment should be completed for the MALDI-TOF instrumentation set up, use and clean up procedure. With the increasing use of MALDI-TOF technology it is important to be aware of safety and misidentification concerns.
Safety Considerations:
· 
Safe handling of organism isolate during sample preparation, extraction and target slide preparation including proper PPE (face shield) and / or engineering controls such as Class II Biosafety Cabinet (BSC)
 · Proper PPE, use of fume hood and safe handling of hazardous chemicals such as Acetonitrile (ACN)
 · Complete Inactivation of organism – verify inactivation protocols - some organisms may survive extraction method Avoid analysis of suspected high-risk infectious agents (Brucella spp., Francisella tularensis, Coxiella burnetii, etc.)
 · Consult with LRN reference lab
 · Look for trigger points prior to analysis on MALDI
 · Follow ASM protocols for ruling out and referring potential select agents
 · Gram stain and biochemicals
 · Patient history- travel?
Missed Identification Concerns:
· Laboratories must be aware of software limitations
 · Result limited by the database (library)
 · Multiple libraries improve capability
 · Beware of results that do not make sense – question
 · Potential for exposure to highly infectious disease
 · MALDI not reliable for identification of select agents
MALDI is cheaper, faster, and simpler than conventional microbial identification methods. It requires less labor and is generally accurate. It is important to educate those who are using this new technology to be aware of the limitations and be respectful of the potential safety hazards. 
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
MALDI-TOF Instrument Considerations
Does your lab have a Matrix Assisted Laser Desorption Ionization —Time of Flight, or MALDI-TOF, instrument? If you have one in use or plan to purchase one in the future, it is important to perform a 
biological risk assessment (2016)
 prior to testing. With increasing workload and staffing concerns in the microbiology laboratories MALDI is a very useful piece of equipment; however with any new technology there are safety concerns to be considered and mitigated.
During 2019 to date, 24 microbiologists have been exposed to either
 Brucella melitensis
 or 
Francisella tularensis
 during test procedures involving MALDI-TOF technology. Sentinel laboratory costs for post exposure surveillance and prophylaxis can add up quickly with multiple exposures. These exposures may have been avoided had 
American Society for Microbiology protocols
  for handling bio-threat agents been followed. These guidelines include examination for trigger points by examination of growth characteristics, gram stain, biochemical reactions and patient history. Despite biosafety education, improved lab safety protocols, better engineering controls and biocontainment equipment laboratory acquired infections, or LAIs, continue to pose a risk. 
2018 Bio-threat Agent Sentinel Lab Benchcards
 
    
    
                            
                        
                    
                
            
                
                    
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    Biological Safety Cabinets
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                
    
    
    
    
        
What do we do to make the Biosafety Cabinet ineffective?
 
1.   Walk past it
2.   Open a door near it
3.   Overcrowd it
4.   Cover the front grill
5.   Move hands in a sweeping motion through the sash opening (barrier)
How should we clean a spill in the Biosafety Cabinet?
1.   Leave the BSC running
2.   Cover spill with absorbent material
3.   Carefully apply effective disinfectant and allow appropriate contact time
4.   Flood the catch basin if contaminated
5.   Decontaminate objects within the BSC before removal
6.   Allow the BSC to run for 10 minutes before resuming work
What about the Ultra Violet light in the BSC?
1.   UV light is not recommended as the sole disinfectant for decontamination
2.   UV has limited penetrating power – surface or air only
3.   UV light intensity decreases with
       a. Time
       b. Dirt and Dust
       c. Distance from the bulb
4.   If you do not maintain the UV light bulb and use it correctly, it will not be as effective as you think!
    
    
                            
                        
                    
                
            
                
                    
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    Personal Electronic Devices
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                
    
    
    
    
        
For the safety of laboratorians, their family, and the laboratory, the use of any personal electronic device* should be prohibited in the technical work area of the laboratory under the following circumstances:
1.   During work with any category of hazardous materials,**
2.   If Personal Protective Equipment is being worn,
3.   During work on specimens or data or any process that may affect accuracy of results,
4.   During work in any area in which PED may distract or interrupt others,
5.   During work in any area in which accidental release of protected health information could occur,
6.   If PED cannot be worn without posing a hazard due to dangling wires or other accessories, and
7.   If PED interferes with the worker’s ability to detect potential hazards, such as an approaching obstacle or hearing an alarm
*Cell phones, portable music players, radios with headphones, personal digital assistants, test messaging or other wireless devices
**Chemical or Biological
R
eference: Clinical Laboratory Standards Institute (CLSI) - GP17-A3 (Clinical Laboratory Safety) 5.5.3.1
 
    
    
                            
                        
                    
                
            
                
                    
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    ASM Sentinel Laboratory Guidance
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                
    
    
    
    
        
The American Society for Microbiology has guidance on Laboratory Risk Assessment, Sentinel Laboratory Biosafety, Biosecurity and Biomedical Waste Management.
The Biosafety section includes guidance for MALDI-TOF MS Identification Systems, Molecular Identification Methods and Total Laboratory Automation in the microbiology lab. As more labs implement these cutting edge technologies, it is important that safety risk is carefully considered through an assessment prior to initiation of testing. Once risk assessment is completed and safety mitigation plans are approved, the plan should be written into the SOP. Training should include safety and competency to perform the test safely, and should be confirmed and documented.  
The 
Interim Clinical Laboratory Guidelines for Biological Safety
 (2019) may be downloaded free of charge from ASM .
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Online and Downloadable Resources
TN Bio-threat Agent Bench Cards for the Sentinel Laboratory (2017) 
ASM Laboratory Response Network (LRN) Sentinel Level Clinical Laboratory Protocols
Clinical Laboratory Preparedness and Response Guide (2016)
    
    
                            
                        
                    
                
            
                
                    
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    Online Training Links
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                
    
    
    
    
        
Clicking the links below will direct you to an external site.  Training modules are maintained by the external site owners.
Best Practices for Safe Operation of a Biological Safety Cabinet (BSC)
Biosafety: Avoiding Lab Acquired Infections (LAI)
APHL Packing and Shipping Infectious Substances Training Job Aid
APHL Packing and Shipping Guidance for Biological Substances, Category B Specimens
The Clinical Laboratory Ebola Response: Back to the Basics - A Review of Biosafety Practices (2014)
CDC Guidance for Treating Malaria Smears (2014)
TDH Laboratory Services Ebola Testing Letter (2014)
CDC Laboratory Training
    
    
                            
                        
                    
                
            
            
        
    
                    
                
                    
                        
    
    
    
    
        
Laboratory Training &amp; Workshops
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Want to receive updates regarding TDH Laboratory Training?
Subscribe to our email list to be notified when we add training dates and updated newsletters.
Occasionally, we may ask for your input for possible workshop ideas!
To subscribe, click 
here
 to complete the online form.  
You can unsubscribe at any time by emailing: 
 LabTraining.Health@tn.gov
.
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
        
            
            
                
                    
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    New! Lunch and Learn Webinar Series
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                
    
    
    
    
        
Lunch and Learn Webinar Series
 
The Public Health Laboratory Lunch &amp; Learn Webinar Series offers accessible, one-hour educational sessions highlighting the essential role of public health laboratories in protecting communities. Each session introduces participants to a different area of public health laboratory science, including disease surveillance, outbreak response, diagnostic testing, newborn screening, virology, bacteriology, and environmental health.
Through presentations, case examples, and practical discussions, participants will learn how public health laboratories work with clinical laboratories, healthcare providers, epidemiologists, and other public health partners to identify health threats and support timely public health action.
The sessions are designed to introduce participants to public health laboratory services while providing current and practical information for laboratory professionals, students, and public health partners. Each webinar is offered as a separate course and requires individual registration.
COURSE OBJECTIVES
At the conclusion of the webinar series, participants will be able to:
Describe the role of the public health laboratory within the broader public health system.
Identify laboratory services that support disease surveillance, diagnosis, prevention, and outbreak response.Explain how public health laboratories collaborate with clinical laboratories, epidemiologists, healthcare providers, and other partners.
Discuss examples of how laboratory testing contributes to public health investigations and interventions.
Recognize educational and career opportunities within public health laboratory science.Apply information presented during individual sessions to improve awareness of public health laboratory practices and services.
Specific learning objectives will be provided for each webinar.
AUDIENCE
This introductory-level webinar series is designed for:
Clinical laboratory scientists and technicians
Sentinel laboratory personnel
College and university students
Public health professionals
Healthcare professionals
Educators and academic partners
Individuals interested in public health laboratory science and careers
No previous public health laboratory experience is required.
LOCATION
Virtual webinar presented through Microsoft Teams.
Registered participants will receive instructions for joining the webinar by email. Participants must attend the live webinar to qualify for continuing education credit.
DATES AND COURSES
Introduction to the Public Health Laboratory: 
Register Here!
Wednesday, July 29, 2026
12:00–1:00 p.m. Central Time
P.A.C.E.® Program Number: 429-103-26
This introductory session explores the role of the public health laboratory and the services it provides to support disease surveillance, emergency response, prevention programs, and population health.
Virology and Public Health: 
Register Here!
Wednesday, August 26, 2026
12:00–1:00 p.m. Central Time
P.A.C.E.® Program Number: 429-104-26
This session highlights the role of the public health laboratory in the detection and surveillance of viral diseases, with a focus on arboviral diseases and rabies testing.
Newborn Screening Awareness: 
Register Here!
Wednesday, October 04, 2026
12:00–1:00 p.m. Central Time
P.A.C.E.® Program Number: 429-105-26
This session provides an overview of newborn screening and explains how laboratory testing supports the early detection of serious health conditions in newborns.
Behind the Outbreaks: 
Register Here!
Wednesday, November 4, 2026
12:00–1:00 p.m. Central Time
P.A.C.E.® Program Number: 429-106-26
This session examines how public health laboratory testing supports outbreak investigations. Case examples will demonstrate how laboratory findings contribute to identifying disease sources, confirming cases, and guiding public health response activities.
Environmental Testing and Public Health: 
Register Here!
Wednesday, December 02, 2026
12:00–1:00 p.m. Central Time
Certificate of Completion - No P.A.C.E.® credit offered 
This introductory session explores how environmental laboratory testing supports public health by identifying and monitoring potential environmental hazards. Participants will learn how laboratory findings contribute to public health surveillance, investigations, regulatory activities, and actions taken to protect communities.
REGISTRATION
Registration is required for each webinar. Participants must register separately for every session they plan to attend.
Registration is available through the course links listed above. Registered participants will receive webinar access information by email before the scheduled session.
Participants should provide an accurate email address during registration. The webinar link is intended only for the registered participant and should not be forwarded or shared.
For registration assistance, cancellations, or accessibility accommodation requests, contact:
TDH Laboratory Training
LabTraining.Health@tn.gov
CONTINUING EDUCATION
The Tennessee Department of Health Division of Laboratory Services is approved as a provider of continuing education programs in the clinical laboratory sciences by the ASCLS P.A.C.E.® Program.Participants who successfully complete an eligible webinar will be awarded 1.0 contact hour of P.A.C.E.® continuing education credit.To receive continuing education credit, participants must:Register for the individual webinar.Attend the live webinar in its entirety.Complete the required pre-test, post-test, and course evaluation.Meet any additional completion requirements communicated during the session.Partial credit will not be awarded. Recorded or independently viewed sessions are not eligible for continuing education credit.
    
    
                            
                        
                    
                
            
                
                    
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    Bio-Threat Preparedness:  Rule Out or Refer Workshop
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                
    
    
    
    
        
Rule out or Refer Workshop
Bio-Threat Preparedness: Rule Out Refer Workshop
COURSE DESCRIPTION
This intermediate-level workshop focuses on practical methods that clinical microbiology laboratories can use to remain alert for the agents of bioterrorism. Participants will learn about surveillance and evaluation procedures that can be integrated into the routine work of the clinical microbiology lab. Procedures for the referral of suspect cases will also be discussed. In this hands-on course, following appropriate safety precautions, participants will examine actual cultures and organisms in a laboratory setting.
COURSE OBJECTIVES
At the end of this workshop, participants will be able to:
Discuss the role of the clinical lab in discovering organisms targeted for use in acts of bioterrorism.
Explain the safety implications of handling suspected organisms in clinical specimens and isolates.
Describe the clinical and laboratory features of the primary agents likely to be involved in a bioterrorist event, including anthrax, plague, botulism, tularemia, brucellosis, melioidosis and glanders.
Recognize culture, staining and biochemical characteristics of bioterrorism organisms.
Apply information presented in clinical scenarios in order to avoid identification pitfalls.
Explain select agent regulations and their impact on clinical laboratories.
AUDIENCE
This intermediate-level workshop is designed for Medical Laboratory Scientists and Medical Laboratory Technicians working in sentinel/microbiology laboratories. Admission preference will be given to those working in sentinel/microbiological laboratories in TN.
LOCATION
Tennessee Department of Health Division of Laboratory Services
630 Hart Lane, Nashville, TN 37216
DATE
October 2, 2026 
(flyer)
REGISTRATION
Registration is required. To register, click on the date listed above. Registration will close 2 weeks before the workshop date.
Limited seats are available for each date. Do not register for multiple dates. Please contact TDH Lab Training (LabTraining.Health@tn.gov) to cancel or change your registration.
CONTINUING EDUCATION
TDH Division of Laboratory Services is approved as a provider of continuing education programs in the clinical laboratory sciences by the ASCLS P.A.C.E.® Program. Participants who successfully complete this program will be awarded 7.5 contact hours. Partial credit will not be awarded. Program Number, 429-102-26. 
    
    
                            
                        
                    
                
            
                
                    
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    Infectious Substance Packing and Shipping Training
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Infectious Substance Packing and Shipping Training 
 
ONLINE TRAINING
 
Packing and Shipping Dangerous Goods:  What the Laboratory Staff Must Know
 
(CDC Lab Training)  
    
    
                            
                        
                    
                
            
                
                    
                    
                        
                            
                                
                                    Infectious Substance Packing and Shipping Resources and Guidance
                                
                            
                        
                        
                            
                                
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
Infectious Substance Packing and Shipping Resources and Guidance
 
PHMSA Notice of Enforcement Policy Regarding International Standards
 -
 November 2022
 
TDH Infectious Substance Packing and Shipping Guidance
  
Category A Quick Guide
Category B Quick Guide
 
U.S. DOT Hazardous Materials Outreach &amp; Engagement
Guide to Packaging Category B Samples Poster
 
APHL  Packing and Shipping Guidance for Biological Substances, Category B Specimens
 
IATA Dangerous Goods Regulations
CDC  Packing and Shipping Job Aids
DOT (Ground) Classification Job Aid
Packing Category A, and B, and Exempt Human or Exempt Animal Specimens Job Aid
Labeling, Marking, and Documenting Requirements Job Aid
Shipping Papers Job Aid
 
SARS-CoV-2 Specimens
DOT Safety Advisory Notice for the Transportation of COVID-19 Diagnostic Samples
 
Infectious Substance Training Guidance
 
APHL Packing and Shipping Infectious Substances Training Requirements Job Aid 
  
 
NEW! 
IATA Dangerous Goods Training Guidance
 
Effective 1/2023
 
U.S. Department of Transportation Hazardous Materials Outreach &amp; Engagement
Guide to Developing a Hazmat Training Program
 
    
    
                            
                        
                    
                
            
            
        
    
    
    
    
    
        
Continuing Education for Laboratories
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
        
            
                
                    
                        CDC Lab Training
                    
                
            
                
                    
                        CDC TRAIN
                    
                
            
                
                    
                        CDC OneLab Reach
                    
                
            
                
                    
                        APHL Training Portal
                    
                
            
                
                    
                        APHL Training and Events
                    
                
            
            
                
                    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
CDC Laboratory Training
CDC Laboratory Training offers numerous on demand training modules.
Topics include: COVID-19, Diagnostic Testing, Preparedness, Core Science, Safety, Informatics, and Packing and Shipping.
    
    
                
            
                
                    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
CDC TRAIN
CDC TRAIN is a gateway into the TRAIN Learning Network, the most comprehensive catalog of public health training opportunities.
TRAIN is a free service for learners from the Public Health Foundation.
CDC TRAIN provides access to more than 1,000 courses developed by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) programs, grantees, and other funded partners.
Courses offered by CDC course providers have been approved and verified by CDC.
 
    
    
                
            
                
                    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
CDC OneLab Reach
A learning management system for clinical and public health professionals!
Free COVID-19 Laboratory Education and Training
Access free laboratory resources through CDC's Rapid Education and Capacity-building Hub (REACH)
    
    
                
            
                
                    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
APHL Training Portal
New digital repository for online courses and some archived webinars. Y
ou can view and enroll in a range of free training courses, from Laboratory Ethics to Tuberculosis Specimen Handling.
The portal tracks course progress and enables you to complete training on your own sch​​edule.
    
    
                
            
                
                    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
APHL Laboratory Training
APHL offers educational opportunities including conferences, meetings, webinars, and workshops. 
On-demand training opportunites  are also available.
    
    
                
            
        
        
        
    
                    
                
                    
                        
    
    
    
    
        
Lab Web Portal (LWP)
Facility Registration Form
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
            
            
                
                
                    
                        
    
    
    
    
        
TN Lab Web Portal
TN LWP New User Registration
Lab Web Portal Memo
TN LWP Quick Start Guide
TN LWP Rabies Quick Start Guide
COVARS-Net Guidance
    
    
                    
                
                    
                        
    
    
    
    
        
Antibiotic Resistance Lab Network 
(ARLN) Lab Web Portal
ARLN LWP New User Registration
TN LWP ARLN Quick Guide
TN LWP ARLN GC Quick Guide
TN LWP Reference ARLN
 
    
    
                    
                
            
        
    
                    
                
            
        
        
    
        
    
        
This Page Last Updated: September 16, 2026 at 8:48 AM
    
    
        
        
        
        
        
            
    
    
        
        
        
    
        
        
        
    
    
    
    
    
    
        
    
        
        
        
    
        
        
        
    
    
    
    
        
        
        
    
        
            
                
                    
                        
Social Media
                    
                    
                        
                            
facebook
                        
                    
                        
                            
twitter
                        
                    
                        
                            
youtube
                        
                    
                        
                    
                        
                    
                        
                    
                        
                    
                        
                    
                        
                    
                        
                    
                        
                    
                        
                    
                        
                            
linkedin
                        
                    
                        
                    
                
            
        
    
    
        
        
        
    
        
            
                
                    Food &amp; Nutrition
                
                
                    
                
                
                   
                       
Commodity Food Program
                   
                
                   
                       
Nutrition Programs
                   
                
                   
                       
Pick TN Products
                   
                
                   
                       
Supplemental Nutrition Assistance
                   
                
                   
                       
Tennessee WIC
                   
                
            
        
            
                
                    Families &amp; Kids
                
                
                    
                
                
                   
                       
Adopt a Child
                   
                
                   
                       
CoverKids
                   
                
                   
                       
Education Resources
                   
                
                   
                       
KidCentralTN
                   
                
                   
                       
Tennessee Disability Pathfinder
                   
                
            
        
            
                
                    State Government Resources
                
                
                    
                
                
                   
                       
Driver Services
                   
                
                   
                       
MyTN
                   
                
                   
                       
State Directory
                   
                
                   
                       
State Services Lookup
                   
                
                   
                       
Transparent Tennessee
                   
                
            
        
            
                
                    Get Outside
                
                
                    
                
                
                   
                       
Free TN Vacation Guide
                   
                
                   
                       
Outdoor Recreation
                   
                
                   
                       
State Historic Sites
                   
                
                   
                       
TN Natural Areas
                   
                
                   
                       
Tennessee State Parks
                   
                
            
        
        
        
            
                
                    
                        Department of Health
                    
                    
                        John R. Dunn, DVM, PhD, EMBA-SL Commissioner
                    
                    
                
                
                    
                        710 James Robertson Parkway
                        
                        Nashville, TN 37243
                        
                        
                        
                            
                                tn.health@tn.gov
                            
                        
                    
                
                
                    
                        Contact Us
                    
                
            
            
                
                    
                    
                    
                
            
        
    
    
    
        
    
        
        
        
    
        
        
        
    
    
    
    
        
        
        
 
    
        
            
                
                    
                        
Flag Status
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            Chat
                        
                        
                            
                        
                    
                
            
            
                
                    
                        
                            Help
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            Translate
                        
                        
                            
                                
                            
                        
                    
                    
                        
                            Font Size
                        
                        
                            
                                
                                    
                                        
a-
                                    
                                    
                                        
Normal
                                    
                                    
                                        
A+
                                    
                                
                            
                        
                    
                
            
        
        
            
        
    
    
        
            
                
                    
                         
                             TN.gov Services
                         
                    
                         
                             TN.gov Directory
                         
                    
                         
                             Transparent TN
                         
                    
                         
                             Web Policies
                         
                    
                         
                             Mobile App
                         
                    
                
            
            
                
                    
                        
                            About Tennessee
                        
                    
                        
                            Title VI
                        
                    
                        
                            Accessibility
                        
                    
                        
                            Help &amp; Contact
                        
                    
                        
                            Survey
                        
                    
                
            
        
    
    
        
        
        
    
    
    
    
            
    
    
    
        
        
    
        
            
                
Close
                
                    
                
            
        
    
    
