                                           Well Water Testing
                                        Test Kit Steps and Interpretation
Well Testing
To promote healthy and safe wells, the Tennessee Department of Health encourages private
well owners to test water for potential contaminants, including coliform bacteria.

Coliform Test Kits
Coliform test kits detect coliform bacteria, which indicate fecal contamination from human or
animal waste. Coliform bacteria can cause gastrointestinal illness. No level of coliform bacteria is
considered safe for drinking water.

Steps for Using the Coliform Test Kit
 1. Fill the jar with water, following the instructions in the test kit.
 2. Screw the lid back on, making sure it will not leak, and shake the jar for 20 seconds to
    mix the powdered growth media with the water.
 3. The liquid turns purple at the start of the test. After 48 hours, if coliform bacteria are
    present, the color shifts to a yellow color. If the water is purple or pink, it means your
    water is negative for coliform bacteria.

Interpreting Your Results
                       Yellow – Positive Test
                       The test detected coliform bacteria. We recommend filtering and
                       disinfecting the water before using for drinking. Add a filter with a pore size
                       of 0.5 microns or less. Filters are usually available at home improvement
                       or hardware stores. Disinfection could include chlorination or ultraviolet
                       light. See instructions for Well Disinfection Using Laundry Bleach or work
                       with a company that provides water treatment installation for private wells.
                       Ultraviolet lights can be purchased from home improvement or hardware
                       stores.

                       Pink / Purple – Negative Test
                       The test did not detect coliform bacteria. However, water quality can
                       change, so we recommend testing well water annually or following events
                       such as flooding or other disasters.




Questions? Contact: 615-532-7111 or Waterborne.Health@tn.gov
Note: The State of Tennessee does not regulate private well or spring water quality. These tests
and recommendations are provided for informational purposes only. To learn more about
protecting your private water supply, please visit: Private Water Supply (tn.gov)
                                                                                          V1. 10/3/2024
